ntroduction to APTI- Function Hierarchy 

Attitudinal Psyche is a personality system that seeks to explain the fundamental attitudes of each of the types. Each of the 24 types has four distinct attitudes. It is similar to the system of myers briggs in that there is a hierarchy to each of these functions. Each function is notated by the number of its position in the hierarchy and the letter that stands for it- i.e. 1L, 2E, 3V, 4F. The first function is in the Confident position. The first function is your dominant function, your dominant subconscious attitude that governs your behavior and the way you see the world. The second function impacts your behavior quite a bit as well, but a function in the Flexible position is just that- flexible. It’s not as frequently utilized as the dominant function, but still greatly affects how you see the world. The attitude in the third position is the Insecure function. This is a function that you struggle to use, but are still conscious enough to feel insecure about using. You may subconsciously overdo it, or avoid it entirely. Finally, the fourth function is in the Unbothered position. This function is so weak that you don’t even notice it or pay attention to it. You’re simply unconcerned about it and it doesn’t really impact your day to day life.  
The four functions that make up every APTI type are Logic, Volition, Physics and Emotion. These four functions also make up sixteen attitudes- 1L, 2L, 3L, 4L, 1V, 2V, 3V, 4V, 1E, 2E, 3E, 4E, 1F, 2F, 3F, and 4F. The different combinations of these attidues make up 24 different types. 

Those with a strong attitude of Logic are analytical and rational. They tend to be very academic and precise, enjoying discussions of the theoretical. They are very logical and value reason, especially those with Logic in the Confident position. They become frustrated with those who do not adhere to reason. 

Those with a strong attitude of Volition have strong willpower and know what they want out of life. They are driven and determined to achieve their goals, and are very efficient. They are confident in their ability to make decisions and will not question themselves, especially if Volition is in the Confident position. They become frustrated with inefficiency and those who do not see the logic behind their decisions.

Those with Physics in the Confident or Flexible position are very focused on their own health and their physical environment. They put a lot of effort into their aesthetic and prefer to experience the raw experiences their environment has to offer. They are interested in material objects and put a lot of effort into having their environment aesthetically appealing. 

Those with Emotion in the Confident or Flexible position are fixated on their feelings and the feelings of others. They are not ashamed of their emotions and won’t apologize for them. They accept others for who they are and don’t expect others to apologize for what they feel either. They have a strong sense of culture and empathy for other people. They enjoy being social and types with lower Logic can become annoyed at others trying to apply reason to human emotions. 


I'm going to try to give you a little help.

One of the most important dichotomies in psychosophy is that of Process and Result, which, when mixed with strong or weak, will help you find your possible type.

The first and second functions are strong and the third and fourth weak, while the first and third are result, and the second and fourth process. This means that in a certain way, the third function is a weak and repressed form of the first function, which wants to be as much as the first but is unable to do so, thus
being frustrated and reduced by others, many times being compensated or expressing itself and it's frustration in a deviative way through the first function. Read the articles on the page that I sent you about the positions and accents of functions and you will get the idea of where this is going (I have a special liking for that page, since it tells you how good, neutral and ugly each aspect is of what it describes is, instead of staying in the positive sides to praise the reader). By how you describe your will, it gives the impression of strong and processive, second will we can say.

To see if a results will type suits you, I am going to give you a couple of examples about result wills to give you an idea so you can compare.

The mentality of the first will can be summarized the next sentence
"Those who want to live, let them fight, and those who do not want to fight in this world of eternal struggle do not deserve to live." The first will fights and moves forward directly towards its goals, is forceful and capricious, and if it wants something, it will do absolutely everything possible to achieve it. In comparison second will gets along with others, accepts others suggestions and interest, and doesn't steamrolls through everything and everyone if needed to archieve what it wants.

A good example for the third will may be the classic story of the dispute between Isaac Newton and Leibniz regarding the invention of calculus, in which the father of physics (at that time head of the royal society) selected a cabinet of investigation agains't Leibniz for claiming to have invented calculus before, and then secretly wrote the cabinet report himself, with the intention of destroying Leibniz's reputation. Newton would later present that report as evidence, and as an investigation carried out by the chosen cabinet (which it was not). The third will is like that, being weak and incapable, and yet ambitious and high-minded, resorts to working from the shadows, not getting into direct conflict, and pulling the strings behind the scenes to get what it wants. A fictional character representing third will can be the protagonist of Death Note, Light Yagami.
In comparison, fourth will has almost no willpower, doesn't apply pressure and accepts/incorporates other people's goals or imperatives for himself with ease.