Loop Looks Like

ISTJ Si-Fi loop: An ISTJ in a Si-Fi loop will replay past events, usually traumatic ones, and relive these past experiences in their head and then wallow in their negative feelings. They compare new or present situations to negative memories and assume that every situation is going to go badly, interpreting how the situation is going to impact them personally. They have difficulty putting their ideas into actual action, lose their ability to reason logically in a situation.
ISFJ Si-Ti loop: An ISFJ in a Si-Ti loop will replay past events, usually traumatic ones, and relive these past experiences in their head.They will also try to come to a logical reasoning for why these things happened, and overanalyze the situation. However, they would not be able to come to a conclusion and would instead become stuck in this loop of recalling memories and analyzing them. In addition, they lose some of their ability to interact with the outer world in a healthy way, and instead withdraw into themselves and neglecting to talk over their feelings with others in their life.
INFJ Ni-Ti loop: An INFJ in an Ni-Ti loop attempts to suppress their emotional side, shutting themselves off from others and becoming unable to share their feelings with those around them. They will become extremely withdrawn and private, attempting to become analytical and logical without employing their feeling side. They will attempt to view everything in a logical light while shutting off their tendency to consider things in the light of the feelings and values of those around them. In addition, they will repress their feelings.
INTJ Ni-Fi loop: An INTJ in an Ni-Fi loop overanalyzes everything in their life and wallows in their negative feelings. They overthink their emotions and become very focused on what they want in life. They project how every situation is going to go, usually assuming the worst, and how the situation is going to impact them personally. They have difficulty putting their ideas into actual action, lose their ability to reason logically in a situation, become overwhelmed by their inner experience of emotions, and stew in their negative feelings. They obsessively think about their own emotions, values, and beliefs towards morality and life, but in a very negative way that often lands them in a depressive state.
ISTP Ti-Ni loop: An ISTP in a Ti-Ni loop overanalyze situations, getting stuck in their head and find themselves unable to act on any of their beliefs. They may become convinced that they are completely right and know best in any situation, also becoming overly anxious in situations and mentally pick them apart in an attempt to understand them. They will also become overly worried about the long term implications of an action or the underlying meaning beyond what they see on the surface, and have trouble acting in the moment.
ISFP Fi-Ni loop: An ISFP in a Fi-Ni loop overanalyze situations, getting stuck in their head and find themselves unable to act on any of their beliefs. They will wallow in their feelings and overanalyze situations, also becoming overly anxious in situations. They will also become overly worried about the long term implications of an action and have trouble acting in the moment, worrying about whatever future emotional repercussions will result from actions. They will read into things past what is on the surface and come to negative conclusions which result in negative emotions, which they then stew in.
INFP Fi-Si loop: An INFP in a Fi-Si loop will get stuck on negative past events and begin to overplay them, reliving their emotions in the situations. They will stew in these emotions and become unable to look to the future. They will become withdrawn, and unexcited about the prospective of new ideas and possibilities, instead fearing that these negative situations will replay themselves.
INTP Ti-Si loop: An INTP in a Ti-Si loop will get stuck on negative past events and begin to overplay them, analyzing why things happened the way they did. In addition, they can use their sense of logic to come up with negative beliefs about the world and use their Si to provide past experiences that reinforce these ideas. They will become withdrawn, and unexcited about the prospective of new ideas and possibilities.
ESTP Se-Fe loop: An ESTP in an Se-Fe loop is going to be very impulsive, reckless, and want to do adventurous things for the sake of getting external validation from those around them. They will become very concerned with what others think about them and want to spend all of their energy impressing those around them. They almost cater to the desires of those around them and lose their ability to think independently and logically.
ESFP Se-Te loop: An ESFP in an Se-Te loop becomes overly concerned with “doing” all of the time, unable to let themselves stop to take a break. They become forceful, aggressive, insistent upon taking action whether or not it hurts those around them or fulfills their inner sense of duty. They dismiss their necessary stage of stopping to reflect on whether their choices are in line with their values, instead shutting off this voice and focusing on outward manifestations of logic and planning.
ENFP Ne-Te loop: An ENFP in an Ne-Te loop comes up with a million possibilities and tries to put these all into action without taking time to consider their personal values or opinions on the matter. They become very externally driven, wanting external validation and recognition. They also become outwardly hardened, trying to compensate for their usual lighthearted and sensitive demeanor.
ENTP Ne-Fe loop: An ENTP in an Ne-Fe loop would imagine a bunch of negative future scenarios and lose sight of reality as they fail to apply logic to their unrealistic beliefs. In addition, they become extremely sensitive to others’ opinions of them and are extremely concerned with being accepted by those around them and feeling disliked.
ESTJ Te-Ne loop: An ESTJ in an Ne-Te loop comes up with a million possibilities and tries to put these all into action without taking time to consider what is realistic, or consider structures or past lessons that would guide them. They become very externally driven, wanting external validation and recognition. They will become unable to settle and focus on a single plan, instead becoming stressed out as they are pulled in a million different directions.
ESFJ Fe-Ne loop: An ESFJ in an Ne-Fe loop will go to any lengths to please those around them, without being able to consider what is realistic or within their own principles, or consider structures or past lessons that would guide them. They will become stressed out as they are pulled in a million different directions, attempting to please everyone else.
ENFJ Fe-Se loop: An ENFJ in an Fe-Se loop seeks external validation and pours themselves into others without being able to consider their personal feelings or take time to consider themselves. They become particularly sensitive to others’ view of them and their image, obsessing over ways to bolster this image through material goods and sensory experiences. They over-socialize and look to fulfill their short term impulses and desires.
ENTJ Te-Se loop: An ENTJ in a Te-Se loop becomes power hunger, grabbing at anything that can bolster their image or control without considering the sensibility behind these actions, obsessing over ways to bolster this image through material goods and sensory experiences. They become overly concerned with “doing” all of the time, unable to let themselves stop to take a break. They become forceful, aggressive, insistent upon taking action whether or not it hurts those around them.

I get asked loop questions a lot. Why should I reinvent the wheel?


Yeah.
Leave your room. Go out into the real world, and do stuff.
Honestly, that’s it. Introverts can get lost in their heads. Once that happens, the external functions shut off because you aren’t using them, due to a kind of mental isolation from reality. Going out INTO reality, and interacting with other people, situations, and ideas, opens up your extroverted functions and breaks the loop. Granted, I suppose you could go out into the world and stay in your loop if you wanted to – but you’d probably get hit by a car.
Since you’re Fi/Si looping, I assume you’re an INFP (as opposed to an ISTJ). To wake up Ne, you need to engage with new experiences and ideas – so, go somewhere you’ve never been before that captures your imagination, or join a discussion group for something that you love, which forces you to interact with other people. 
Same goes for all the other introverted types. Do something in the real world. Engage your auxiliary function by taking action in a desire to experience something new that gets you out of the house, out of your routine, out of your rut, and out of your mental preoccupation. Take a class. Learn something new. Go mountain climbing. Learn to play a sport. Make new friends.
Being around people is especially good at waking up Fe. I loop a lot at home, but the minute I’m around other people or in a group, the compassionate, mediating class clown comes out to play. 
Looping extroverts … have to cease moving and find themselves. In other words, slow down to a more measured pace and take some time alone, to engage their second function and realign their priorities and sense of self. In that instance, I’d say – go home and do something on your own! ;)
